---
layout: post
title: "How I finally partially understood game devlopment?"
date: 2024-11-22
categories: [app]
giscus_comments: true
tags: [game, app, game]
authors:
  - name: Linda Joe Thadeus
    url: "https://lindathadeus.github.io"
    affiliations:
      - name: Org
      - name: Clg
  - name: ChatGPT
    url: "https://openai.com"
    affiliations:
      - name: OpenAI
---

### How I finally managed to understand game development?

I have always liked games (who hasn't, right?). I also always wanted to make games. I tried creating games during my college years. I even found some tools like Microsoft XNA Framework. But still I din't know what to do with that framework. No disrespect but If a dog finds a coconut then what can it do? I did not know how to use that tool and I did not know how to create games without that tool too. Both were necessary and I had neither, so it was just a failure. Fast-forward. Now, we have the "NEWEST & HOTTEST TOOL" i.e. LLM and they have the entire internet in them. But I still did not know how to create games. So, I started to think from the perspective of scarcity, i.e. without that LLM tool, I found out that there are few basic concepts in a game.

### Words in a Game
- Game Loop
- User-input and Player Movement Mapping (User Input Handling)
- Rendering and Animation (What use a game is if there is no animation)
- Physics and Collision Detection
- Scoring and so on

### Words as input to LLM

Now that we have got the foundation of knowledge i.e. words, I had to do was to give the words to my offline internet (LLM) and got the relevant information immediately.

### Microsoft XNA or Godot or Raylib

And then, I had to use a Game Library like XNA, I used raylib, as I am now in the Linux machine. I generated code blocks for the words and connected them together, I am a software dev so it is easier for me. And, it gave me comfort like no other game.

The important thing is I now know game development and I don't need the tool to create. The tool just expedites my process.
### Ref:
[github link](https://github.com/lindathadeus/gameyatra/tree/master/2-i-saw)
---

**What do you think?** Let me know your thoughts in the comments below.
